>>WILLIAM HENRY: Have
you ever wondered
what the human body was
really designed to do
or is capable of
doing spiritually?
>>CLARE HENRY: On this
episode of "Arcanum,"
we investigate the human
rainbow body of light.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM: Our
exploration of arcanum
has seen the repetition
of three key symbols:
a stone, a rod or a staff,
and a cloak of light.
>>CLARE: The stone is
the Philosopher's Stone.
The rod is the caduceus
or staff of life.
The cloak is the
garment of light.
>>WILLIAM: In
Western civilization,
the quest for arcanum begins
with humanity's eviction
of Adam and Eve from
the Garden of Eden.
The Old Testament god Yahweh
made a gate at the east of Eden
and placed a flashing,
flaming sword in its center.
>>CLARE: Humans were forbidden
to cross through the gate.
>>WILLIAM: Next, the Bible says,
the Old Testament god Yahweh
made coats of skin for humanity.
And these are assumed
to be animal skins.
>>CLARE: However, in the
esoteric or mystical tradition,
the skin is human skin.
Mystics believe that Adam
and Eve were originally
beings of light.
>>WILLIAM: Rabbinical
tradition also
says that Adam and Eve were
covered with a cloud of glory,
meaning they glowed
rainbow rays.
>>CLARE: Adam's
garment is identical
to the celestial
robes of the righteous
in the Jewish and Christian
mystery tradition.
>>WILLIAM: It is described as
a shining garment or garment
of light.
>>CLARE: It was of extraordinary
brilliance and splendor.
And because of it,
Adam and Eve possessed
supernatural qualities.
>>WILLIAM: This glowing
rainbow body was taken away
from humanity, mystics say,
and our goal is to reclaim it.
>>CLARE: In the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
the Essenes proclaimed
the faithful were
to receive life everlasting
and a crown of glory
and a robe of honor
amid light perpetual.
>>WILLIAM: Is it
possible that Adam
and Eve's glorious
and glowing garment
is the original body of
light within all of us?
>>CLARE: In William's
feature investigation,
we will explore the mystical
teaching that tells us
that we are all in the process
of morphing into a higher form.
In one lifetime,
we can transform
or morph into what they call
the rainbow body of light.
>>WILLIAM: My
investigation or awareness
of the rainbow body of
light or cloak of light
began in 1999 with this enticing
drawing of the baptism of Jesus
from Winchester, England.
In the drawing or in the
scene, we see John the Baptist
attuning Jesus to the higher
vibration of the Holy Spirit,
and an angel is
standing by to give him
his new cloak or
garment of light.
When I first saw
this, I was transfixed
by this process, this
attunement, this imagery.
And it prompted me to do wonder,
what is this cloak of light
that Jesus is receiving?
We know it was referred
to as a miracle garment
because after he
put on this garment,
he was able to
perform the miracles.
Symbolic of putting on new
clothing, this garment of light
represents a seal or
a garment of light
that enabled Jesus to move into
this dimension in a new way.
Thus, later Easter
traditions of Whitsunday
became the later
Easter tradition
of giving and
getting new clothing.
This is why we dress up
our children in new clothes
at Easter time.
It symbolizes the acquisition
of this new garment of light.
And this is what
he demonstrated,
Jesus did, at the
transfiguration.
After receiving it, he
showed the disciples
what was possible with
this garment of light.
It's described as the robe of
light, the robe of sanctity,
the robe of glory, the shining
garment, the garment of light,
the beaming garment, and
the rainbow body of light.
The Greek word that
describes it is Exousia.
It means authority,
jurisdiction, liberty, power,
right to act, ability,
privilege, capacity,
and strength.
And the question that
emerged in my mind
was, well, where did John
the Baptist get the cloak?
And the answer is is
that John, it is claimed,
was the reincarnation of
Elijah, the prophet who was last
seen ascending into the
heavens in a whirlwind.
And as John is ascending in
this classically rendered icon
depicting the
ascension of Elijah,
he transmits this holy
garment to his priest, Elisha.
And then later, Elijah
incarnates as John the Baptist,
and he goes and
reclaims this garment.
So from these bits and pieces
that I started assembling,
I began to realize that
this garment symbolizes
a transmittable
teaching or perhaps
a vibration that enables us
to ascend into the heavens.
Now in the ancient world,
they called the ascension
into the heavens
via a whirlwind.
But today, I think
this is what we
call a stargate or a wormhole.
I began to put these pieces
together and recognizing
that if we're going to
ascend through a stargate
or a wormhole,
that we first must
put on this cloak
or garment of light.
And so I spent the time
from the early 2000s,
just pulling on
this golden thread
or string of this
garment, if you will,
following the story of
Elijah reincarnating
as John the Baptist, and seeing
how he reclaimed this garment
and was able to
utilize its power
and potential for
his own well-being,
and then ultimately how
he transmitted this cloak
or garment of light to his
cousin Jesus at the baptism,
enabling Jesus then to
fulfill his earthly mission.
And I was just astounded by
the potential and possibility
of this.
And I wondered,
how come this isn't
the basic Christian teaching?
Why isn't it a popular
teaching in Christianity?
Why isn't the church
set up to assist us
in manifesting this incredibly
powerful garment of light?
And as I continued pulling
on this golden thread,
I realized that ultimately,
this garment of light
was one of the key symbols
of the esoteric version
of Christianity.
And I began seeking
artwork that reflected
the utilization or-- not
just the acquisition,
but utilization of
this garment of light.
Here we're looking at Antonio
Campi's beautiful painting
in the Louvre, "The Mysteries
of the Passion of Christ."
In the center of
the painting, we
see a fairly traditional
image of the crucifixion:
Jesus with the two
thieves on either side,
Mary Magdalene, the
mother Mary, is present.
And then as we pan
around the painting,
we start to see the
mystical version
of the story or the mystical
attributes of this story
emerge.
We see the
resurrection of Jesus.
He is lit up like
a lightning bug.
He's actually resurrecting
from the tomb.
He's manifested his glory
body or resurrection body
as Christianity refers to it.
And then 40 days
after the resurrection
of his attainment
of this light body,
we are introduced then to
the idea of the ascension.
And this is what happens in the
upper right of the painting,
where now we see Jesus, having
attained his light body,
is seen above this
spiraling or corkscrewing
mountain with angels
on either side of it.
And he's ascending into this
apparent whirlwind or vortex.
And we see a trail of righteous
souls following along with him.
And we recognize that
in this ascension,
Jesus is no longer in
his flesh and blood form.
He's in a body of
light, and he is now
ascending into the heavens.
Now Antonio Campi does
some extraordinary things
in this painting.
And in the detail, we
see Jesus ascending
with all the other righteous
souls that are following him
along this path of
souls into the cosmos.
These are the
successful souls who
have followed this
path or teaching
and attained the vibration
of the body of light
and are now capable of following
Jesus through this gateway.
And I documented this in my
book, The Secret of Sion:
Jesus's Stargate,
the Beaming Garment,
and the Galactic Core
in Ascension Art.
And this was a huge
inspiration for me,
this recognition that
the garment of light
is the foundation of
esoteric Christian teaching.
It is arcanum.
And so I began
collecting as many images
as I could of Jesus
manifesting this body of light.
It's not typical, because
the typical crucifixion scene
shows a bloodied
and tortured Jesus.
He's supposed to be
here to suffer for us.
He died for our sins
in order to save us
in traditional
Christian teaching.
But in the esoteric side,
he came here, rather,
to show us the way for us to
attain our own light body.
And the key fact that I realized
that a lot of these artists
operated from--
their premise was
that by tuning in
to images of Jesus
manifesting the light body,
we feed our own light body.
So here.
Look at this
crucifixion scene where
Jesus is manifesting this
rainbow colored light that's
exploding from within his
body, demonstrating the way
to attain the rainbow body of
light or the resurrection body,
as it's called.
See the spray of
energy all around him
and how those
closest to him were
able to absorb that
frequency or that vibration.
And it is us, of course,
who are close to Jesus
as he's manifesting this
glory body at this moment.
Another favorite example is
the "Eisenheim Altarpiece"
by Matthias Grunewald, where
we see Jesus resurrecting
from the grave as this
brilliant light being,
manifesting a light
as bright as the sun.
And we see him with this
rainbow colored aura of energy
all around his light body.
To me, these are
far more inspiring,
and indeed instructive from
the soul's perspective,
than seeing the traditional
bloodied and tortured Jesus.
And it gave me a sense that
I was on the right path
here to keep following
this direction here.
Follow the light body Jesus
rather than the suffering
Jesus was the message that
I found in these paintings.
Soon it became
around the year 2006,
and I had a very
fortunate meeting.
You might call it a
synchronistic meeting.
I was at a conference
in California,
and a lovely couple came up and
introduced themselves to me.
They were both in their
mid 50s, and they told me
they both had PhDs from the
Harvard Divinity School.
They lived in India.
They worked with the Dalai
Lama, translating Tibetan texts.
Their specialty, they said,
was the rainbow body of light,
and they wondered if I'd
ever heard of it before.
And I hadn't.
And they gave me a
brief explanation
of the rainbow body, which I'd
like to share with you now.
Essentially, this
practice is called
Dzogchen or the great
perfection or mystic rapture.
And what the Tibetans teach
is that a teacher or yogi who
has acquired the highest
forms of accomplishment
can transform the subtle
aspects of the human body
into pure light or what
is called the rainbow body
or body of light.
The idea is is that
we can accelerate
the frequency of the human
body and spin it into a vortex,
dissolving the body into light,
leaving behind only hair, toe,
and fingernails, which have
no nerves to be transmuted.
And as this couple
is telling me this,
my imagination's
just going wild.
I'm thinking this is incredible,
to think that the human body is
designed to be spun into
this vortex of multicolored
or rainbow colored light that
can then travel the cosmos.
And this couple was
very deeply enthusiastic
about sharing this with me.
And the reason
why, they said, is
because they're experts
in the rainbow body.
They work with the
Tibetans, and they told me
that my work actually
answered for them
a question that
the Tibetans never
would answer for them, either
because the answer was secret,
they said, or because
perhaps the Tibetans didn't
know the answer to the question.
But my work in Egypt answered
this question for them,
they said.
The question was, once these
Lamas have perfected their body
and manifested the
rainbow body of light,
the Tibetans teach
that then they
are able to travel to any of
the other 12 star systems--
13 star systems,
including our own--
where this resurrection
or rainbow body
teaching is taught.
And what they always wondered
was how do they get there?
In other words, how do they
get from Sol, our star system,
to Sirius or the Pleiades
or Orion or Arcturus or any
of the other number
of star systems
that are repeatedly
mentioned in myth
and sacred tradition
the world over?
I mean, if we can get there
from here, how do we get there?
And then they said
they were watching
my presentation, my DVD
presentation "Star Walkers
and the Dimension
of the Blessed"
about the ancient
Egyptian star walkers,
and they got their answers.
What I had proposed is that, in
the ancient Egyptian tradition,
Osiris acquired in
his resurrection
a garment of light.
And what I had observed is
that when Osiris acquires
his garment of light,
he's very often
shown on the arc of the millions
of years, which to me looks
exactly like the way modern
science portrays a wormhole.
And I started down
this path of comparing
the ancient Egyptian
star gods who
we're assured are
transformed humans
who became celestial
beings, that
being the entire premise of
the ancient Egyptian religion,
that a human can become a star
being or a celestial being
and travel the stars.
As for example, as we see
here, the resurrected Osiris
is now called Orion.
And he sails aboard his
wormhole shaped ship
of eternity or arc of
the millions of years
towards the field
of the blessed,
via-- accessed via
the star fields
of Orion, which is the
place the Egyptians were
trying to aim their souls to.
And so the couple said their
eyes are just big as saucers
as they're watching
this because they're
going back and connecting the
dots with the Tibetans, who
said that they can travel
to other star systems.
How do they do it?
Via a wormhole,
this couple said.
My work answered that
question of how, once they
manifest the rainbow
body of light,
they can travel the stars.
Something else
that inspired them
was my imagery I provided
in another presentation
where I documented my
experience on a cruise ship
in Luxor, Egypt.
We were invited to watch a
whirling Dervish dancer, very
special, 800-year-old
mystic Islamic dance.
And what happens is the
Dervish dancer comes out,
and he starts spinning in place.
He's going into a meditative
trance as he's spinning.
And before I know it, he's
got this flying saucer
around his body.
He looked like Elijah
to me, going up
into that heavens in a whirlwind
in his merkaba vehicle.
And I'm blown away by this
800-year-old mystic Islamic
dancer-- or dance
as he's performing
this incredible story
about human transformation.
And he's wielding this.
And then all of a sudden,
he pulls out a second skirt
and starts spinning it.
And my jaw drops.
It's like, wait a minute.
That's a wormhole.
This mystic Islamic
dancers is showing us
that our human body is
capable of being transformed
into a wormhole, which
is my entire premise
in my presentations
I had just been given
the day before to my
tour group in Egypt.
And here it is, right
before my very eyes.
So here's the comparison
between our Islamic dancer,
our whirling Dervish or Sufi
dancer, beside a wormhole.
And it's clear that 800 years
ago, somebody in Cairo, Egypt
imagined our body
dissolving into light
or transforming into a wormhole,
as we see happening here.
And what happened at
the end of the dance
is that he collapses
his second skirt,
and he wraps it into a bundle.
And his assistant brings a
linen shroud out, if you will.
And they wrap the bundle,
and he feeds milk to it.
And I'm just blown away.
I'm thinking, OK, I
get the message here.
We're talking about how we
emerge on the earth plane
as a soul.
How did we get here?
Well, we came through a
portal, our mother's womb
in the birth canal.
But before that,
how did we get here?
Maybe we came here
via a wormhole.
That's what this dance
seemed to suggest to me.
And in fact, after he
completed his dance,
I went up to the dancer.
And I said, wow, I'm
just absolutely stunned
by your performance.
What were you trying to
convey through that dance?
What's the message?
And through a translator,
he said, well,
I was explaining the
unity of heaven and earth.
And I'm like, wow, why can't
I bring you back to Nashville
with me or take you up
to Boston to MIT or over
to Stanford where these high
energy physics types are trying
to break the wormhole code?
And you can show it
to us because it's
all within our body.
Our body is the stargate.
Our body is the wormhole.
And so after this meeting with
this couple at this conference,
I went home, and I
started hitting the books
and started hitting the
internet and saying,
OK, I gotta see what
I can figure out here.
I'm tremendously inspired.
In fact, this couple
started sending me
PhD dissertations about
the rainbow body of light.
So some of what I'm going to
share with you in this episode
today comes from
that research that I
started doing as a
result of that couple.
And I always like to
give them the most
heartfelt thanks
for changing my life
and tipping me off
to this reality here.
And one of the examples that
I found is this one here.
It's a thangka from
the 17th century where
we see a Lama in the rainbow
body from the top down.
And look.
He looks exactly like our
mystic Islamic dancer performing
the wormhole dance,
as I call it.
He's spinning in place with
the same multi-colored imagery
and the same spinning motion.
Now look what we see
here in the detail.
Look what's all over
this Lama's body.
It's nothing less than
the Chintamani symbol
that we have referenced
over and over again
in the "Arcanum"
series, the symbol
for the wish-fulfilling jewel,
which I believe ultimately
the Chintamani is the symbol for
the attainment of the rainbow
body of light.
That's the ultimate
wish we all have,
is to manifest our rainbow
body of light, our glory body,
our resurrection
body, whatever term
we feel most
comfortable for using.
It's all telling the
same story, and it's not
just the Tibetans
or the Egyptians
or the mystic Islamics that
have this story encoded
within their traditions.
It's actually all
over the world.
It's essentially a universal
or global teaching.
In fact, as noted, it
doesn't even come from Earth.
It's taught in 13 star
systems, including our own.
And as I'm pondering that
and meditating on this,
I'm thinking, wow, there must
be beings coming and going
through these star
gates and wormholes
from all of these star systems.
And in fact all of
us have the ability
to manifest this rainbow
body of light and travel
to these other star
systems and beyond.
Here's a really good example
of the rainbow body of light.
This is Padmasambhava.
In the eighth century, he
came from India to Tibet
to teach the rainbow
body of light.
And I love this imagery here
because we see the swirling
energy around him
that symbolizes
the rainbow body of light.
But look at it through my eyes.
What do we see on the
outer rim of his body
but a portal or a gateway?
And it made me feel like
I was on the right track
here in uniting the
rainbow body of light
with the star gate
or the wormhole.
They gate to heaven that we are
all seeking is our body itself.
Our body was designed
by whomever-- Ptah
in ancient Egypt or whatever
god being or deity we refer to.
It's hard wired to be
spun into this vortex
and ultimately manifest
the rainbow body of light.
As I pulled on this
thread, I began
connecting up the
Tibetan tradition
and the Christian tradition
and especially linking
with the Egyptian tradition.
This couple I referenced were
very kind in that about a month
after we met, I was
speaking in Tempe, Arizona,
and I had been in
contact with them,
and I mentioned that I was
going to be talking about some
of my new findings concerning
the rainbow body that
were inspired by our meeting.
And I couldn't believe
it, but the couple
came to my presentation from
their home in California.
And I put up these
images of Osiris,
where he's wearing what the
English mythologist and poet
Gerald Massey referred to as
the crossed garment, his garment
of light that was
crafted by Ptah,
the Egyptian god of
smithcraft and alchemy
who the Egyptians said
fashioned the human body.
And what I did is I put
Osiris next to the rainbow
body of light thangka.
And the couple burst out
laughing because they never
thought about that before.
But look at the
correspondence here.
It's a virtual perfect
match between the energy
field on Osiris's
Atef crown and that
that we see in the Tibetan
thangka of the rainbow body.
It makes perfect common
sense that the-- pardon me.
That the resurrection
body of Osiris
and the rainbow body of
the Tibetan tradition
are the same thing because
these cultures are surely all
being influenced or
receiving teachings
from these celestial beings who
brought this teaching to Earth.
So look at the swirling
energy of Osiris's crown.
His face is painted green,
symbolic of rebirth, renewal,
regeneration, resurrection.
We see the swirling energy
manifesting from the heart
chakra of the Lama here, and we
have a perfect correspondence
between these traditions.
Here's an image
here from the tomb
of Nefertari in the
Valley of the Queens
where Osiris is wearing
his crossed garment,
the bright white
garment of light.
He's got the swirling energy
around his neck and also
the Atef crown.
He's sitting on his
feathered throne.
Now when you see feathers
on a throne like this,
it indicates ascension.
And so what this
means is that Osiris
is in fact in his ascension
or resurrection body.
And of course, it's what
the Tibetans referred
to as the rainbow body of light.
It's all the same thing.
And by weaving my thread
through these traditions,
I've been able to put
together a more, perhaps,
comprehensive body of work
about the rainbow body
than you'll find in Christianity
or the Tibetan tradition
or the ancient Egyptian.
I believe we have to unite
all these traditions in order
to piece together
the entire picture.
There's of course a
highly energetic component
to Osiris's acquisition
of his garment of light.
We have over here
Isis and Horus,
who are beaming energy to Osiris
and helping him to resurrect.
And again, it
triggers us to think
that the rainbow
body of light is
in fact an energy field produced
by the body, specifically
manifesting from
the heart chakra.
And it may well be
that the divine spark
that the Gnostics referred
to is located in the heart,
and it is the source of the
manifestation of the rainbow
body.
And as usual, we see the
outer ring, which in my view
indicates the opening of
the portal or the gateway.
Here's a key.
This is a message we've heard
in numerous "Arcanum" episodes.
Many Tibetans believe that just
seeing these revered images
opens the mind to
hidden potentials.
So just by contemplating,
meditating, and reflecting
on these images, we are able
to absorb the light or energy
of the rainbow body and
awaken it from within us.
And what I encourage
people to do
is to get images such
as these thangkas
here and download them from the
internet and from my website.
I have mine on my cell phone.
What that means is that
about 30 times a day,
I'm linking with my
rainbow body of light.
I'm imprinting the energy
of my divine body, my glory
body, my resurrection
body, into my energy field
and remembering this
is where I want to go.
This is what's
actually within me.
It's not something
I go out and get.
It's something I reveal
from within myself.
He or this Lama is wearing the
rainbow body on the outside.
We wear it on the inside.
We have these cloaks of
skin that conceal or occult
our true selves, our
rainbow bodies of light.
The essence of the great
perfection teaching
is the direct
transmission of knowledge
from master to disciple.
Dzogchen teaching is epitomized
in three principles known
as the three statements
of Garab Dorje, who
is the originator of the
rainbow body teaching in Tibet.
These three principles
are: direct introduction
to one's own true nature;
two, not remaining in doubt
concerning this
state; and three,
continuing to remain
in this state.
So essentially,
what they're telling
us here is that attaining the
rainbow body or manifesting,
revealing it is a simple
three step process.
What I had done is just whittled
it down into my own vernacular.
And that is, we have to
imagine the rainbow body.
And this is what I hope
to accomplish in my work,
is to help you to imagine
this, to recognize
that this is within you and to
bring it into your imagination
and flood your imagination
with these images.
Next, you have to
believe it, and you
have to continue to believe
that this is where you're going,
that this is your destiny.
And finally, you have to live
your life with the expectation
that this is your destiny.
Now the Tibetans teach
that, likely, all of us
have been reincarnating.
And we've been spending
lifetime after lifetime
accumulating knowledge,
wisdom, and the vibration
of the rainbow body
of light and that all
of that acquisition of knowledge
and wisdom and vibrations
is cumulative.
And in fact, they teach, we
can achieve the rainbow body
of light in one lifetime.
And the Tibetan
sources that I've read
will tell you that you
probably couldn't even
imagine that some of
the people you pass
on the street in the grocery
store are capable of doing this
and don't even know it.
They might even be this close
to finally dissolving their body
into light, leaving behind only
hair, toe, and fingernails.
Just imagine the next time
you're in the grocery store,
something like that happens.
It's incredible.
But that's what our
body is designed to do.
This is what this
existence is said
to be all about, that
once we have fulfilled
our earthly destiny, this
is how we get off this rock.
And in fact, the
Tibetans teach this
is the only way we will be
able to leave the arth plane.
So what I continued
to do is to say, OK,
what if the resurrection body
of Osiris, the crossed body,
is the same body of light,
the resurrection body attained
by Jesus?
I mean, we know he was in Egypt.
He grew up there.
So what if he was at
Abydos or Dendera or some
of these other temple
locations where
we see emphatic and very
direct references to Osiris
attaining the resurrection body?
What if this is what
we're talking about here?
And remember, Jesus spent
those 18 missing years
between 12 and 30 in India,
in Tibet, in Mongolia.
What was he doing there?
Well, in my scenario,
he was learning
to attain the
rainbow body of light
to show us the way in order to
manifest our highest potential.
And so I absolutely equate
the resurrection or glory
body of Christ with
the rainbow body.
And when we see
images such as this,
"Christ and Mary in
the Cloud," you know,
you see some people that want
to argue or try to convince you
that this is like
a flying saucer.
But come on.
When you hit the books, and you
recognize what this really is,
now we know that this is
in fact Jesus and Mary
riding upon a luminous cloud.
And they do look
like flying saucers.
But trust me, they're
not flying Toyotas
or tricked out Benzes
that can travel the stars.
These are organic
light vehicles.
These are-- these
luminous clouds
that Christ and Mary ride in--
is the rainbow body of light
that allows them to
travel interdimensionally.
And you know what?
The Tibetans teach that once
you attain the rainbow body,
you can phase back and
forth between physicality,
between flesh and light.
How many times did Jesus do
that after the resurrection?
Numerous times.
He ate with the disciples.
He walked with the disciples.
They thought he was a real
flesh and blood being.
Well, he probably was because
having attained the rainbow
body, he can phase
back and forth.
He had attained the crossed
body, the resurrection
body of Osiris, the
rainbow body of light
and all of these
superhuman capabilities,
including the ability
to open stargates
and wormholes via
his light body.
This is what it's all about in
the arcanum or mystery school
tradition.
Now as we go forward, let's
look at a couple of statements
here that dramatically
and emphatically tell us
that Jesus in fact had
attained the rainbow
body of light or the
great perfection.
Here's a statement from
the Gospel of Philip, which
was a Gnostic
encyclopedia, fortunately,
was rediscovered
in the Nag Hammadi
cache of documents in 1945.
Philip says, "The lord
rose from the dead.
He became as he was, but
now his body was perfect."
It's a direct correlation to the
great perfection of the rainbow
body.
"He possessed flesh,
but this was true flesh.
Our flesh isn't true.
Ours is only an
image of the true."
Oh, that statement
is just loaded
with meaning in a holographic
reality or a virtual reality.
This isn't our real body.
This is only an image
of our true body.
Our true body is the perfect
body, the rainbow body
of light, the resurrection body.
And when we attain
it, we are free souls.
We're successful souls.
We're perfected beings
who have the ability
to phase back and forth
between the dimensions.
Why would you want to phase
back into physicality?
Well, the Tibetan great
perfection teaching
tells us you would do
that because you're
a being of complete
compassion and love,
and you would love nothing
more than the opportunity
to come back into
the earth plane
to awaken others to the
reality of who they truly are
and to transform this
planet from a place of fear
to a place of light and love.
And let's look at
the comparison here
of the Lama and the rainbow
body and Jesus on the rainbow.
They tell exactly
the same story.
They're talking about
the manifestation
of the rainbow body of light.
And this is why Jesus is on the
rainbow throne in last judgment
and second coming in
resurrection Christian imagery.
This is what it means.
In Hans Memling's "Saint
John the Evangelist
on Patmos," which is what
we're looking at here,
we see John the
Revelator in the midst
of his visionary
experience that put him
in the presence of the
resurrected Christ.
Over the rainbow bridge
is the glorified Jesus
on his rainbow throne.
John gives an explicit and
dramatic eyewitness account
of seeing the resurrected
Christ in his rainbow body.
This is what he's describing.
And he's in fact inviting us to
attain the same level of light
and love, of purity.
Now I hear this all
the time, that humans
can't attain perfection.
How dare you?
You know, nobody's perfect.
That's what our culture teaches.
Yeah, well, that's what the
dark side wants you to believe.
The fact of the matter is
we are already perfect.
We just have to chisel
away the imperfection.
You might have heard that
story about Michelangelo
approaching the stone.
And the apprentice asks
him, "Master, how are you
going to bring out the wonderful
sculpture within that stone?"
Perhaps a horse, for example.
And the sculptor, Michelangelo,
says, well, all I'm going to do
is just look at
the stone, and I'm
going to take away
everything from it that
doesn't have to do with a horse.
That's how we attain the
rainbow body of light.
We look at our life, and we
take away everything about it
that doesn't have to do with
the rainbow body of light.
And that's what we're left with.
It's about removing,
not attaining.
It's about unveiling
our true self.
And that's the message of
the rainbow body of light.
So as we're going forward,
just allow the energy
of these thangkas--
these beautiful thangkas
which I was privileged
to stand before
and allowed to photograph
for your benefit--
to just radiate you, if you
will, to beam into your energy
field, to come into
your energy field
and to begin to peel away the
layers, to peel away the stone,
the hardness and get
into that core, that
divine spark that's within you,
and release this most sacred,
holy, and indeed perfect
aspect of who you truly are.
And as we go here, you can-- you
know, just common sense tells
us that we're looking at
exactly the same experience,
whether in the rainbow body or
the resurrection body of Jesus.
It's all the same story.
And the key here is
is that just seeing
these images awakens
this potential within us.
Isn't that beautiful?
What a marvelous system to
awaken our true potential.
I mean, there's really
no books about it.
In fact, in the Dalai Lama's
secret temple behind the Potala
Palace is a room, a
temple, 360 degrees.
This is where the Dalai Lamas
would go for hundreds of years
to learn about the
rainbow body of light.
There's not a single
book in there.
There's not a single word.
It's all images.
It's all paintings that
guide us through this process
of manifesting the rainbow body.
One of my favorite images of
Christ in the rainbow body
is by William Holman Hunt.
And we see Jesus and the
360 degree rainbow ring.
We've got Mary Magdalene there.
And he's beaming
this ultimate energy
into the world for
all of us to absorb.
Talk about going over the
rainbow or into the rainbow.
This is a magnificent
example of this.
You know, this
shouldn't sound too far
out for traditional
Christians because this
is the hope and promise
of Christianity.
Christians believe
that in the end times,
the entire human body of
Christ and only Christians
will be changed to light to
match the body of Christ.
And they believe this
is going to happen
in the blink of an eye.
They call this rapture.
Mystic rapture is a
better term, perhaps.
Paul writes in Corinthians,
"But we all, with unveiled face,
beholding as in
a mirror (LOUDLY)
the glory of the Lord."
Sorry.
That's the televangelist
in me coming out.
But really, the word glory
simply means to glow rays.
So Paul is saying,
beholding as in a mirror,
the glowing rays of the
Lord are being transformed
into the same image from
glory to glory, just
as by the spirit of the Lord.
Now reading this
literally, it's saying
that we are going
to mirror or match
Christ's frequency in
his resurrection body.
That means rapture is
all about attaining,
in the blink of an eye,
the rainbow body of light.
Christians believe you
don't have to do anything
to attain that except proclaim
Jesus Christ as your lord
and savior, and that's fine.
I absolutely encourage that.
But in my view, why not
take it a step further
and assist the process?
Why not commit to unveiling
this and mirroring that light
and love in your daily
life and your actions
and recognizing that
that's also a valid way
to assist in this process?
One of my favorite images also
of Jesus and his resurrection
or rainbow body is "Christ
in the Realm of the Dead"
by Joakim Skovgaard,
a Russian artist.
And what we see here
is Mary Magdalene
receiving the vibration of the
resurrection or rainbow body
from Christ on Easter morning.
We know she's received
it because she's
got the rainbow halo
around her head.
And here's Jesus
opening the heart chakra
and beaming to the Magdalene
this frequency or vibration
of the rainbow body.
And now she, who is
his chief apostle,
can then go out into the
world and share that frequency
or vibration, not only
with the other disciples,
but with all who
care to receive it.
Powerful, powerful,
powerful image.
This light body or star
body, as we can refer to it,
is our hidden inner
spiritual body
that's referenced in numerous
spiritual traditions.
John write-- excuse me.
John White wrote an article
in "Enlightenment Magazine,"
where he cataloged these for us.
In Sufism, it's called
the most sacred body
and supracelestial body.
And as I read these
off, they give you
not only the attributes of
the rainbow body of light,
but also suggest the
substance of which it's made
and how to attain it as well.
So it's called the
supracelestial body.
Taoists call it
the diamond body.
We talked about that in
the Botticelli episode.
And those who have
attained it are called
the immortals and
the cloud walkers
because the rainbow body of
light is misty and cloud-like,
and these beings
appeared to walk
on clouds, clouds of light.
Yogic schools and Tantrics
call it the divine body.
In Kriya yoga, it's
called the body of bliss.
In Vedanta, it's called
the super conductive body.
The ancient Egyptians
called it the luminous body
of being or akh or the karast.
This conception evolved
into Gnosticism,
where it's called
the radiant body.
Again, a very
descriptive attribute.
In the Mithraic liturgy,
it's called the perfect body.
And the perfect
body isn't something
you can get by
throwing 50 grand down
at your local plastic surgeon.
The perfect body
comes from within.
It's the rainbow body of
light that transforms us.
The philosopher Sri Aurobindo
called it the divine body
and said it is composed
of supramental substance.
Wow.
That's an incredible statement.
The 20th century Christian
mystic Teilhard de Chardin
called it the ultrahuman.
It's actually the next human.
In the Hermetic
Corpus Hermeticum,
it's called the immortal body.
And in the alchemical
tradition, in arcanum,
it's called the golden body.
So there you go.
These are descriptive terms
for this body of light,
showing it in all these
various traditions.
I like to collect examples not
only of the masculine images
of the rainbow body, but also
the divine feminine as well.
So here's the
White Tara enfolded
within the rainbow ring,
which is considered
to be a bridge
between dimensions.
We also have another
example of the White Tara.
Notice the rainbow ring around
her inner body as well as
her outer body.
Then we have another example
here of Jesus on the rainbow
ring, perfectly
correspondent, where
he's enthroned on the
360 degree rainbow ring.
We're all down here in
the chaos of earth life,
and all the good
stuff we want is
said to be up here around
the throne of Christ.
How do we get here?
By manifesting our resurrection
body or rainbow body of light.
Continuing on, we see other
examples of the rainbow body.
This is the White
Tara again, an image
I took in the LA
County Museum of Art.
I was entranced by this
image of the White Tara
in an apparent portal or
gateway, at least to my eyes.
And it was only later, when
I'm more intently studying
the image, that I noticed
that not only does she
have the third eye open, but
that when you look at her legs,
they're rainbows, indicating
a subtle way of portraying
the rainbow body of light.
So here's how they portray it.
And the ideas is that as
we contemplate and meditate
and reflect on these images, we
bring it into our energy field.
Jan van Eyck shows
the resurrected Jesus
in the rainbow body, very
powerful example to me,
where he's just staring
us right into our eyes,
right into our soul, and
saying, manifest this rainbow
body of light, this
body of light and love.
There's a direct correspondence
between these images.
And somewhere between the
Tibetan rainbow body tradition
and the Christian idea
of the resurrection body
is where we find the meeting
ground between all the world's
traditions.
So it doesn't matter
which avenue you choose.
They're all going to
lead to the same place.
I was in the George Washington
Freemasonic Memorial
in Washington, DC in the
Knights Templar Chapel,
and I took this photo
of this, of Jesus
manifesting the
resurrection body.
Look at the rainbow
light around him.
Look at the white
This is the combination of the
bright white garment of light,
which is all the colors of
the rainbow swirled into one.
And we have them combined here.
I love this stained glass window
because he looks like Rocky
to me.
He looks like he's
attained victory,
and he's encouraging us
also to attain victory,
to dig deep within
ourselves and manifest
this rainbow body of light.
So both of these images are
telling exactly the same story.
Here's Jesus's statement
on perfection, by the way.
If you want a direct Christian
teaching on perfection,
here it is.
In an episode, Jesus utters
this statement of truth.
He says, "I tell you the truth.
It is hard for a rich man to
enter the kingdom of heaven.
Again I tell you, it's
easier for a camel
to go through the
eye of a needle
than for a rich man to
enter the Kingdom of God."
Now traditional Christian
teaching on this
would have you understand
that Jesus is referring
to a literal camel having
to get on its knees,
to have its cargo taken
off its back in order
to enter the gateway to
the Temple of Solomon.
But the esoteric
version, at least
my interpretation of this,
is a little bit different.
I believe that what
Jesus is saying is
is that if we want to get
through the eye of the needle,
the eye of the wormhole,
we've got to drop this body.
This cargo body is
not going anywhere.
The flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of heaven,
which means we've got
to drop this body.
And as the Tibetans
say, we've got
to dissolve it
into light in order
to go through the wormhole.
And what happens in the
episode-- and by the way,
this is a painting
by Salvador Dali.
I took this photo in
the National Gallery
in Washington, DC.
And I love it because as
you look at Jesus closely,
he's got this rainbow energy
pouring out of this body.
And Dali brilliantly
shows him phasing
between the material and
the immaterial realm.
He's neither fully here
in this material dimension
nor is he fully in the
immaterial dimension.
He's in both places.
And he's intently, again,
inviting us to follow him
through the eye of the needle.
And what happens in
this episode is key,
is that Jesus uttered
this truth in response
to a question from the rich man.
He had asked him what is
required for eternal life.
What is the secret of
eternal life, in other words?
And Jesus said, follow
the commandments.
And the commandments are,
"Love with all your heart,
with all your soul,
and with all your mind.
This is the first and
greatest commandment,
and the second is
like unto to it.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
All the law and
the prophets hang
on these two commandments."
That's the secret of
eternal life right there,
and it's also the
secret to attaining
the rainbow body of light.
How do we do it?
We love with all our heart,
all our mind, all our soul
and love our
neighbor as ourselves
because we recognize our
neighbor is our self.
Well, the rich man came
back to Jesus, and he said,
I've always done that.
I've always kept
the commandments.
I doubt that because he wouldn't
have asked that question
to Jesus if he had, right?
And he wanted to know
what else is required.
You know, how many shekels or
gold bars or whatever, perhaps?
And here's the punchline.
Jesus then told him, "If
thou wilt be perfect,"
meaning whole, holy, and
complete, go and sell
what you've got, "give it
to the poor, and thou shalt
have treasure in heaven;
and then come and follow me"
through the wormhole.
Well, that's my
statement anyway.
Now I'm not advocating
that you have
to go sell everything
you've got.
But the message here is clear.
It's crystal clear.
Jesus is saying our
stuff isn't going with us
through the eye of the
needle, through the wormhole.
We've got to let that stuff go.
We got to peel away the stone.
We've got-- because the
stone isn't going through,
but the horse can.
And that's what he, I
believe, is telling us here.
We've got to peel away
the layers of materialism
and all of the things
we devote our lives
to that are wonderful
experiences,
but devote ourselves to
getting through that gateway.
Now this image here is one
that I absolutely love.
And as we're getting
towards our closing,
I wanted to share it
with you because it
helps us to enlarge our
imagination in this way.
We see Jesus as the vine, and
we see branches going off him.
He's holding a
cluster of grapes,
and there are 12
disciples around him.
And I got to
thinking about this.
Remember what the Tibetans
said, that the rainbow body
teaching is taught in 13 star
systems, including our own?
What if the 12 disciples
plus Jesus, the 13th,
represent the 13 star systems
where this resurrection
or rainbow body of light
teaching is taught?
What if it's about us unifying
with these star systems
and becoming one with them
and loving our neighbors
in these other star
systems as ourselves?
Could that be the
ultimate message
of the rainbow body
of light teaching,
that we are in fact part of
a federation, if you will,
of star systems where
these teachings are taught?
What if Earth is
in fact an island
or a colony in this
federation-- to use a Star Trek
term-- of star systems where
this teaching is taught?
What if we're all in
the same ring together?
It's a very provocative thought.
Finally, I'm going
to leave you with
another provocative thought.
And that is is that the Shroud
of Turin, as we call it,
is in fact a relic of Jesus'
attainment of the rainbow
body of light,
that in fact he has
left for us a scientifically
valid way of proving
the attainment of the
rainbow body of light.
In December, 2011, the Turin
Shroud, scientists announced,
was created by a flash
of supernatural light.
It couldn't be a medieval
forgery, these scientists said.
Scientists from
Italy's National Agency
for New Technologies, Energy,
and Sustainable Economic
Development spent years trying
to replicate the shroud's
markings.
And they came to the
conclusion that it
was a short and intense
burst of radiation or light
that came from within
the body of the person
in the shroud that
caused those markings.
I believe that this is direct
evidence that Jesus existed
and actually attained
the rainbow body of light
and that what we
are left with here
is not a relic but actually
proof that humans can transform
themselves into stars
or celestial beings.
And that is the
secret of arcanum.
And now Clare's going to take
us deeper into the rainbow
body of light teaching
by connecting us
with the divine feminine and
the ancient goddesses who also
demonstrated this
extraordinary human capability.
>>CLARE: The story
of the goddess
Inanna's descent
into the underworld
is the oldest human story.
It is the prototype
story for all heroes
in search of arcanum.
In the Sumerian poem of Inanna's
journey to her sister's throne,
she travels to the
Kur, the underworld,
through a series of seven gates.
At each gate, she
removes a power object,
a symbol from her
body, until she
stands naked before the throne
of her sister, Ereshkigal.
According to one
story, Inanna tricked
her grandfather, the god
of alchemy and technology,
known as Enki, into
giving her the Mes.
The Mes were documents, tablet,
or stones which were blueprints
to civilization and contained
the secrets of the gods.
The poem says she gathered
together the seven Mes.
With the Mes in
her possession, she
prepares herself to journey
into the afterlife by clothing
and then disrobing herself
in several objects.
These objects are seen in a
statue of the goddess Mari
from 2,300 BC.
On her head, she
wears the shugurra,
the crown of the steppe.
Around her neck she wears
the small lapis beads.
Some say this necklace
was a rainbow.
Her body is wrapped
in the royal robe.
On her wrist, she wears the
gold ring, and in her hand,
she carries the lapis,
measuring rod, and line.
Her robe is called pala
or miracle garment.
Water streams down
her robe, clothing
the lower part of the body with
a rippling, translucent veil
of water, imparting the
idea that she had either
risen from the water or
lived in it like a mermaid.
William and I were in
the Louvre in Paris,
where we took this photo
of Lady Taperet dressed
in an elegant pleated
gown and shown
praying to the falcon headed
god, Re-Harakhti, crowned
by a solar disk whose
beams are lotus flowers.
The hieroglyphs
arranged above Taperet
exalt the gods to accord
her all the offerings needed
for her to survive
in the beyond.
We especially note the texture
of her transparent afterlife
garment.
A side by side comparison
with the Tibetan rainbow body
reveals her gown looks familiar.
This symbolism is repeated
on this stele, also
from the Louvre.
The deceased woman
stands before Atum.
Once again, she wears
the garment of light.
This symbolism is
repeated on this stele
also from the Louvre.
This time, Thoth,
the god of arcanum,
escorts the deceased woman
to the throne of Osiris.
Whether it is Inanna or
an Egyptian priestess,
the idea of changing
robes is central
to the afterlife journey.
In Nashville, Tennessee, we
find this stunning 42 foot tall
statue of the Greek
goddess of wisdom, Athena,
completely covered in gold.
She wears the aegis,
a large collar
or cape worn in ancient times to
display the protection provided
by a high religious authority.
"And among them went
bright-eyed Athena,
holding the precious aegis,
which is ageless and immortal,"
wrote Homer in The Iliad.
In 1482, the Medici
family commissioned
Sandro Botticelli's painting,
"Pallas and the Centaur."
This is Athena in all her glory.
Athena is wearing a light
down, white and transparent,
decorated with
diamond tipped rings.
She is wrapped in a
large green cloak.
A mesh of olive shoots encircles
her shoulders, arms, breast,
and thighs, forming a sort of
vegetable breast plate which
makes her gown
cling to the body.
Her long, thick
blonde tresses are
adorned with a wreath of
entwined olive branches
with a diamond at the top
within a four-leafed setting.
The goddess of
virgins, Pallas Athena,
was replaced by the Virgin Mary.
The cloak of light
symbolism continued.
She adopted Athena's
cloak and crown.
Mary's crown of
stars may correspond
with Inanna or Ishtar
or Mari's helmet.
In this painting by an
unknown 17th century painter,
she wears the cloak of stars as
she saves souls in purgatory.
In Filippo Lippi's
"Annunciation,"
Mary wears the star
cloak or light cloak,
a plasma-like crown, and
a cloak of many colors.
This hints at the
rainbow body of light
and suggests that Mary was more
than a literate peasant girl,
as tradition says.
On October the 13th,
1917, in Fatima, Portugal,
an event occurred that was
witnessed by 70,000 people
and remains inexplicable
to this day.
After a violent
rainstorm, the clouds
parted, revealing the sun as
a disc spinning in the sky
and radiating a
rainbow of colors,
then falling to the
earth in a strange way.
Could this have been Mary in her
rainbow body or cloak of light?
After the mother
of Jesus, the robe
passed to Mary
Magdalene, shown here
receiving the cloak from
the alchemist Zosimus.
Like Jesus, the Virgin Mary is
considered an ascended being
who is capable of
phasing or appearing
in our light spectrum.
In Christian tradition,
Jesus manifested via a portal
to take Mary to heaven,
called the assumption or door
mission of the virgin.
In this example by
an unknown artist,
Jesus emerges from the portal.
Mary ascends in an
orb of blue light.
Mary appeared in the
18th century in Mexico.
This work by Juan de Villegas
shows the traditional icon
of the vision of Our
Lady of Guadalupe
stepping onto the half
moon, held by an angel,
crowned, and covered by a
starry cloak, and surrounded by
and aureal brilliant with light.
In the corners of the
canvas, the four apparitions
of the Virgin to the
Indian Juan Diego
are portrayed on Tepeyac
Mountain in accordance
with tradition.
In the two upper
corners, accompanied
by two angels, the
Indian witnesses
the divine apparition
that asks him
to go to the bishop of Zumarraga
to tell him what he has seen.
He also tells the
bishop to build
a temple on that precise spot.
The indifference of the
prelate and his desire
to have more tangible proof than
the simple word of the Indian
causes a third
apparition, represented
in the lower left corner with
its subsequent commandment
of Juan Diego to
pick some roses,
hide them in his
blanket or cloak,
and show them to Zumarraga.
This leads to the fourth
and last apparition
in the presence of the
bishop and his companions,
who are able to
verify that it is not
the flowers but the
sacred image of the virgin
that appears on
Juan Diego's cloak.
In "The Eternal Father Painting
the Virgin of Guadalupe,"
attributed to Johan Villegas, we
see God in his heavenly studio
or workshop putting
final touches
on a piece of coarse cloth
held by three angels.
The cloth bears the image
of the Virgin of Guadalupe.
The fact that the first
account of the apparitions
of the virgin gives no details
about how the image was
imprinted on the
fiber cloth gave rise
to debates regarding
the possibility
that the paints used to
execute the said image
were created by
a heavenly being.
"The Miracle of the Little
Spring" by Rafael Planes
allegorically
depicts the faithful,
who are stirred by one
of the first miracles
of the virgin of Guadalupe.
We see the gushing
forth of a stream
of curative waters
at the exact spot
where the virgin made her
third appearance to Juan Diego.
>>WILLIAM: I'm William Henry.
Thank you for
watching "Arcanum."
>>CLARE: And I'm Clare Henry.
See you next time.
[THEME MUSIC]